Ann	name given to women
Barry	a name used for a boy or man, or as a surname
Bel	ancient god
Boer	a person of Dutch descent living in South Africa
Ceres	A Roman Goddess associated with agriculture, Daughter of Saturn
Chile	a latin country
Claus	Traditionally Dutch given name.
Corps	A military organization
Corp	Short for Corporation
Cox	serve as coxswain of a boat
Crays	more then 1 Cray Supercomputer
Czech	from the Czech Republic
Faye	form of faith
Finnish	descended from Finns
Flo	a feminine name
Greece	Mediterranean country.
Harold	Type of man's name
Harry	a male name
Hugh	persons name esp. male
I	Oneself, used to point out narrator in literary works,
I'll	Short form of I will.
Jim	a nickname for James
Kew	famous botanical gardens located in London
Lou	a nickname often used for Louis
Mays	For of all sad words of tongue or pen The saddest are these: ``It might have been.'' --Whittier.    (b) Liberty; permission; allowance.
Mrs.	a married woman's title
Paul	Saint, c. A.D. 67, gentile apostle and missionary.
Pole	someone from Poland
Rome	Italian capital and largest city of Italy
Sikh	monothiestic religion
Sioux	american indian tribe
Sunday	the last day of the weekend, also a day Christian's attend church
Thai	of or pertaining to Thailand
Tun	a big coffin
URL	Location on the internet
Unix	a computer operating system
WACs	female soldiers
Wales	SW Great Britain
Wayne	male name
a	the first letter of the alphabet
accede	agree
accept	to approve
access	a privilege to retrieve something
accessed	to retrieve using a privilege 
assay	to examine
assess	to estimate the value of something
assessed	to estimate the value of something
acts	How someone does something as in "He acts crazy"
ad	advertisement
adapt	to suit to a situation
adopt	to take ownership of
adapts	suits to a situation
adopts	takes ownership of
adapted	changed to suit a situation
adopted	took ownership of
adapter	a converter from one form to another (e.g., power adapter)
adopter	someone who takes ownership of something (e.g., early adopter)
adapting	to change to suit a situation
adopting	to take ownership of something (e.g., adopting a child)
ads	advertisements
add	to combine two things together
adds	increases in numbers
ade	drink made from fruit
ads	advertisements
adverse	opposite, unfavorable
adze	a tool used to dress timbers, with a curved head
aerie	a large bird's home
aero	pertaining to aircraft
aesthetic	a sense of beautiful
affect	to act on
aid	to help
aide	a helper
aids	to help
aides	multiple helpers or assistants
ail	feel under the weather
air	The mixture of gases which surrounds the earth and which we breathe. e.g. I went outside to get some fresh air.
airy	Breezy; light in some manner.
aisle	travelway between structures
ale	a dark, heavy and bitter drink, much like beer
all	The whole of, or whole number of.
allowed	tolerate
alluded	referred to indirectly
allude	refer to indirectly
allusion an indirect reference
allusions indirect references
aloud	high audible pitch
altar	lords table
alter	to make changes
an	one
anecdote	a short amusing story
angle		the space between two connected pieces
angel		being from heavan, a great harp player
antidote	a medicine that counteracts a poison or disease
ant	small bug
ante	poker bet
anti	person opposed to a policy etc.
apposition	being side by side
appraise	to estimate the value of
apprise		to inform or advise
arc	curved line
are	metric unit of measure
ark	large boat
arrow	a slender staff or stick with a wedge at the end, used to pierce
ascent	the upward movement, the act of climbing or traveling up place
assent	to come to the same conclusions
ascetic	one who leads a simple life
attain	to reach or achieve
ate	consumed food
auger	a drill used for making holes in the ground
aught	any part
augur	prophet
aunt	the sister of one's mother or father
auntie	Auntie is a slang form of aunt, referring to the siblings of ones parents.
aural	sense of hearing
auricle	the outside part of the ear
averse	set against
away	elsewhere
awed	in amazement
aweful	Extremely bad or unpleasant; terrible: had an awful day at the office.
aweigh	aweigh  predic. adj. (of an anchor) clear of the bottom.
awful	very unpleasant or poorly done
awl	A pointed instrument used for making holes in wood or leather.
ax	bladed chopping instrument
aye	This word is commonly used by mariners and means yes.
bail	monetary object given to assure a person in custody will return to court at an appointed date
bailed	manually scooped water out of a boat or dinghy
bailee	one who bails
bailer	Someone who scoops water out of a boat.
bailey	The space immediately within the outer wall of a castle or fortress
bailie	a court officer.
bailing	pumping water out of a large area.
bailor	person who entrusts property under a bailment
bait	to allure or tempt; food or poison to capture prey
baited	He baited the mousetrap with cheese.
baiting	To provoke and harass; esp., to harass or torment for sport; as, to bait a bear with dogs; to bait a bull.
baize	green felt-like fabric
bald	having no hair, or no foliage
bale	Hay or other material bundeled for transportation or storage
baled	bundled together
baler	one who bales
baling	the action of tying up hay or straw into bales or bundles
ball	Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow
balled	animal instincts
ballet	a dance
ballot	a place to record a vote
band	a group, usually musical
banned	No longer welcome or allowed in a given area
bard	musical poet
bare	without covering
barely	almost not enough
barley	a plant whose grain is used in beer
bark	Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a sailing vessel or boat of any kind. --Byron.
baron	lowest grade of nobility
barque	A boat or sailing vessel
barred	To fasten with a bar; as, to bar a door or gate
barren	unproductive of results
basal	forming a base
base	the principle constituent
based	a point of attachment
bases	plural of base 
basil	an aromatic herb used in cooking
basis	the facts behind this
bask	to lie in or be exposed to a pleasant warmth, to enjoy a pleasant situation, to expose to warmth or heat
basque	member of a people of the Western Pyrenees
bass	The linden or lime tree, sometimes wrongly called whitewood; also, its bark, which is used for making mats
basses	several bass fish
baste	to brush or otherwise cover with liquid while cooking
bat	a mammal that lives in dark places
bate	To abate or decrease
bated	with bated breath very anxiously
bating	to lessen the force of something
batt	A sheet of matted cotton
baud	data transfer speed
bawd	A prostitute or manager of a brothel.
bawl	to weep or shed tears
bawled	cried loudly
bay	an indentation in the ocean, smaller than a gulf
bays	A body of water in a lake or ocean surrounded mostly by land.
bazaar	a market
be	to be alive
beach	The shore of the sea, or of a lake, which is washed by the waves; especially, a sandy or pebbly shore; the strand
bean	an edible item from the legume family
bear	to carry, produce, or have
beat	to strike
beau	a boyfriend or male suitor
beaut	American slang for beauty, beautiful
bee	honey maker
beech	Tall deciduous tree up to 40 m in height with a straight, clean trunk,having a smooth gray bark and bearing small, edible, triangular nuts.
been	to have existed
beer	An alcoholic beverage brewed from cereal grains.
beet	edible vegetable that is a red root
bel	a unit of power (10 decibels)
bell	signal
belle	a beauty
berry	small fruit without seeds
berth	Sleeping place on a vessel; space allotted to a vessel at anchor; place, listing, or role.
besot	to intoxicate someone with alcohol
besought	to have asked for
better	improved upon
bettor	one who bets
bey	a title of respect for Turkish official
beys	A provincial governor in the Ottoman Empire
bier	stand on for a coffin
bight	center of a piece of rope
billed	contains a bill or bills
bin	A box or container, usually with a lid.
birth	Method of offspring production in mammals.
bit	to chew or gnaw in the past tense
bite	what puppies do to shoes and hands
bitt	used in the tying down of vessels
bizarre	strange
blew	missed an opportunity
bloc	group of persons
block	To prevent someone from passing through
blue	a primary color
boar	forest sow
board	a beam
boarder	a member of a boarding party
bode	to be an omen
bold	daring, courageous
bolder	more brave
bole	trunk of a tree
boll	round seed vessel in center of certain plants like cotton
bond	an IOU
bonds	IOUs
boor	a rude person
boos	Disapproving jeers from an audience
booze	alcoholic drink
border	line of demarcation
bore	dull person; or to be tedious
bored	grow tired of something
born	conceived and birthed, given life
borne	to hold up
borough	A area of the city that is considered unicorperated i.e. various boroughs in New York City
bough	pine branch
boulder	huge stone
bound	a limit
bounds	limits
bourn	a small boundary creek
bouy	a float used for boats' navigation
bow	incline the head or body, esp. in greeting or acknowledgement.
bowed	arched
bowl	basin
bowled	pushed over, toppled
boy	young man
bra	a type of woman's underwear
braid	a weaving of multiple strands together
braise	to cook with moisture
brake	Device in different sorts of machines with function to stop some process.
brakes	devices that stop a car
braw	dressed well
brayed	a donkey howled
brays	donkey talk
breach	a break
bread	a common food item made from flour or meal, usually combined with yeast and baked in a loaf
break	shatter
breaks	shatters into pieces easily
bred	having mated
breath	the air you inhale and exhale
breathe the act of consuming air to survive
breech	the lower part of anything
brewed	to make or prepare
brews	makes a drink, often alcoholic but also tea or coffee
bridal	for or relating to a bride or wedding
bridle	equid's vesture
broach	to bring up a topic of conversation
broad	wide
brooch	A lady's large decorative pin or clasp.
brood	large amount of children born at one time
brows	hair on top of eyes
browse	peruse or scan material
bruise	discolouration of the skin caused esp. by a blow
build	to develop
bullet	ammunition
bundt	Roasted Bread
bunt	(in baseball) to bat a pitched ball by tapping it lightly so that it rolls slowly into the infield
burger	meat patty
burgher	a citizen of town
burrow	a small rodent home
bury	to put into the ground; to hide from view underneath another object
bus	long vehicle for many passangers
buss	to show affection through contact of the lips
bussed	touched by lips
bust	a human head and shoulders depicted in clay or other material
but	instead of
butt	the thicker, larger or blunt end of something considered to be the bottom or base of it
butte	Isolated small flat topped with steep sides
buy	to get something in exchange of money
buyer	purchaser
by	located next to something
bye	In various sports in which the contestants are drawn in pairs, the position or turn of one left with no opponent in consequence of an odd number being engaged; as, to draw a bye in a round of a tennis tournament.
byre	A barn for keeping cattle.
byte	A unit of memory or data equal to the amount used to represent one character; on modern architectures this is usually 8 bits
cache	supply that is hidden
cached	A hidden collection.
calendar	chart  that is marked with days, dates, months in a year.
calender	a machine that smooths cloth or paper
call	to cry out; to invite to come
caller	Person who is calling.
can't	not able to
cannon	a huge artillery
canon	basic rule or principle
cant	an angle
canter	rapid horse's gait
cantor	a person who leads the choral segment of a church service
canvas	a type of fabric used especially for painting
canvass	To inspect completely
capital	an accumulated stock of wealth
capitol	government building
carat	gem weight
caret	proofreader's insertion mark. also used for exponents in math
carol	hymn or song that is sung during Christmas time
carpal	a bone located on the hand
carpel	female reproductive organ of a flower.
career	your job record
carrel	A small enclosure for individual study in a public area.
carrier	someone who carries something (e.g., an aircraft carrier)
carrot	edible parsley family plant
cash	money
cashed	converted to a ready money
cast	to heave an object
caste	a social grouping
caster	a small wheel
castor	part of beaver's anatomy
caul	Amnionic membrane; a net cap or lining.
cause	the reason or motive for some human action
caws	a crow's call
cay	a sandy small island forme on coral
cease	to stop. For example, cease to live.
cedar	a type of evergreen tree
cede	formal give up one's rights to or possession of.
ceding	to yield or surrender
ceiling	top of a room
celibate	to abstain from sex
celebrate	to commemorate an event with a party	
cell	small chamber
cellar	Basement of the house, room or set of rooms under a house, usually for storing food, wines, fuel etc.
censer	vessel for burning incense
censor	to shut up
census	to count
cent	a bronze US coin
cents	money
cere	base covering at the base of the birds nostrils
cereal	a grain product
cession	to surrender
chalk	teachers writing implement
chance	oppurtunity
chants	multiple stated phrases
chard	a green leafy vegetable
charred	to become scorched
chased	To be pursued quickly
chaste	celibate
check	an ok mark
chews	mashes up, usually between teeth or jaws
chili	usually a hot pepper
chilly	uncomfortably chilly
chock	solid piece of matter used to steady things
choir	religious music group
choler	discharge as result of disease
choose	Select from a number of possibilities.
choral	Of (music sung by) a choir or a chorus. e.g. a choral society
chorale	of music or choir
chord	musical note
chose	paste tense of choose, as in "He chose to run away"
chute	a fall
cite	to quote an authority
cited	to quote
cites	past
clack	a rattle or bang, often used to describe the sound of a train on a track
clamber	to climb with a lot of effort
clamor	to loudy demand
claque	A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition
clause	a part of a contract or legal agreement
claws	a long, curved toenail of an animal
clench	hold firmly
clinch	to close the deal
clew	the lower corner of a sail
click	sharp sound
climb	scale
clime	weather conditions
clique	a group of people who are friends
close	Be near to something or somone. To shut (usually a opening).
clothes	items that you wear
clue	A sign or some information which helps you to find the answer to a problem, question or mystery.
coal	Compressed form of carbon witch is cumbustible
coaled	provided coal
coarse	rough, not smooth, characterized by abrasive particles
coat	a warm outer garment; fur on an animal
coax	to convince or persuade, sometimes in a sly manner
cocks	faucet consisting of a rotating device for regulating flow of a liquid
coddling	gently handling
codling	Represents small, unripe apple used mainly for cooking.
coffer	a treasury; savings
coin	money made from metal
cokes	The plural form of coke which can refer to the soft drink by that name or a form of coal used for industrial fuel.
col	depression in a chain of mountains.
cold	chilly
cole	mustard family
collage	a collection of unlikely things (for art)
college	a higher-learning institution
Collage	a collection of unlikely things (for art)
College	a higher-learning institution
collar	part of a shirt that covers the neckline
colonel	A senior field grade military officer rank
coma		a long and deep sleep
comma		a punctuation mark
complacence	serenity
complacent	content, undisturbed
complaisance	willingness to do what pleases others
complaisant	to close one's eyes like a complaisant husband
complement	an addition to something which completes what it is lacking
compliment	praise
conch	marine mollusk with a shell spiral in shape.
conk	A blow on the head; to fail, stop, or sleep (followed by "out").
conscious	awake, aware
conscience	the little voice in your head
coo	a sound that a baby makes
copes	has control of a situation
copped	stolen
cops	Officers of the law, persons who seek to maintain behaviour specified by law.
copse	a thicket
copt	an Egyptian descended from the ancient Egyptians
coral	skeleton of marine life
cord	a braided or woven rope
core	the center of something
cored	The hard or fibrous central part of certain fruits, such as the apple or pear, containing the seed
corps	A group of people as in "The Army corps"
corral	cattle pen
cosign	To sign some kind of document in addition to other person or persons.
cosine	mathematical function
cote	small shed for sheep
cougher	an individual with a cough
council	a group of advisory or leading members of a group
counsel	one who shows the way
coup	a triumph
courier	someone who delivers something
course	itinerary; lesson
cox	a steersman
craft	a ship or other vessel
crater	cup-shaped depression
craze	a fad
creak	a grating or squeaking sound
creek	small streaming body of water
crewed	group of people in a ship or aircraft
crewel	decorative material
crews	a people manning a ship, aircraft, train, etc
crude	unrefined
cruel	Someone that is merciless, causing pain to others.
cruise	A slow  vacation taken on a boat
cue	a signal or hint usually given to remind a performer on stage
currant	a tiny berry
current	happening now; also, electrical energy; also, movement of water
curser	one who uses inappropriate language
cursor	On-screen positional indicator used in Hi-Tech devices like computers, cell-phones.
cygnet	a swan before adult age
cymbal	Percussive concave brass plate instrument played with a drumstick or in a pair.
Cypress	an evergreen tree
Cyprus	an island South of Turkey
dairy	comes from cows
dam	a barrier that blocks the flow of water
dammed	a blocked flow of any liquid
damn	to curse, a curse
damned	condemned
darn	to sew by hand
darne	a thick cut of fish
days	years
daze	To stun temporarily
dear	darling
deducible	you can follow logic to arrive at the same conclusion
deductible	an amount you remove from the total (e.g., a tax deduction)
deer	an animal found in the forest; the males have long slender branched antlers
defuse	the act of making something harmless
defused	made harmless
desert	an arid region, picture cacti and sand
dessert	something delicious, think cake
deviate	to move away from normal
deviant	someone that ignores the rules
device	a machine
devise	scheme
dew	moistness
diary	where you keep your secrets about cows
die	to be gone forever
died	cease to live or function
dies	A verb meaning to expire.
diffuse	to spread out widely	
diffused	to spread out in a wider area
dine	to eat dinner
dire	little hope is available
disc	a record
discreet	secretive, quiet
discrete	individually distinct
discussed	The past form for discuss which means to talk about.
disgust	strong feelings of dislike
disk	a flat round item
disburse	make a payment
disperse	scatter
do	to act
doc	short for document
dock	a structure where access to a boat is gained
doe	female of the deer
does	a group of female deer
done	completed or finished
dos	disk operating system
dough	an uncooked mixture of flour, water and other ingredients used to make baked goods
doughs	soft pastries intended to make bread, uncooked
dose	one unit of medicine.
doze	to sleep, to slumber
draft	First written version of some document.
draught	a flow of wind in an upward motion
drier	a machine that dries
dryer	less wet
dual	two items together
due	amount of money owed currently on a bill
duel	a challenge usually involving honor
dues	monies due for being a member
dun	plague or pester for payments
dye	an ink or substance used to change the color of something
dyed	colored
dyeing	to color a fabric
dyer	a person who dye.
dyes	applies a color to, or, the colors available to apply to cloth or fabric
dying	the opposite of living
dyne	unit of force
e'er	Contraction of ever
earl	honorary rank of nobility
earn	to gain a compensation for one's labor or service
economic	of the production, distribution, and consumption of goods
economical	thrifty, wastes little
effect	an end result or consequence
eh	a questioning sound or utterance of disinterest
eight	numeral between seven and nine
elicit	to evoke
elude	to run away from
eluded	ran away from
em	the letter M, with a munchy mouth
eminent	high in rank, lofty
eminently notable, a great degree
ensure	to guarantee
ensured	to have guaranteed
envelop	to cover
envelope	used to mail a letter
epic	an adventure
epoch	era of time
ere	before
err	to mess up
essay	a short focused document
eunuchs	a man not considered a 'real man'
evaporate	to change from liquid to a gas
evacuate	get everyone out
ewe	the female counterpart of a sheep
ewes	plural of ewe, the word for a female sheep or related animal
exact	precise
expend	to use
expand	to grow
extract	get
exceed	go beyond
except	to leave out
extent	a range of something
extant	continues to exist
eye	body part
eyelet	small enclosed circle to hold laces in place
facts	things known to be true
fain	gladly
faint	lose consciousness
fair	unbiased
faired	to join into something smooth
fairing	cleansing
fairy	A creature out of folklore that has magical powers. It is usually a tiny human with wings, and often it will interefere in human life. It is also derogatory slang for a male homosexual
faker	faux
fakir	Hindu monk or religious ascetic
fare	a price given to a person who hires a public vehicle to travel
fared	to experience something
faring	Art of progress
farrow	To give birth to (a litter of pigs)
fathom	to understand
faux	not genuine or real; being an imitation of the genuine article; "it isn't fake anything
fax	A transmitted facsimile
fay	A fairy or an elf
fays	Middle English for fairy
faze	To surprise and worry someone.
fazed	(often as fazed adj.) colloq. disconcert, disorientate
feat	an accomplishment,neat,suitable
feel	to sense something by touch
feet	bi-pedal extremities
feign	pretend, act as if
feint	an action to fake out an opponent
fell	dropped
ferrate	a compund of hydrogen, oxygen, and iron
ferret	a small polecat pet
ferry	A place where persons or things are carried across a river, arm of the sea, etc., in a ferryboat.
feted	partied
fetid	rotten
few	Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people. ``Are not my days few?'' --Job x. 20
fewer	a smaller quantity, use with things you can count
fey	not of this world
file	to put away papers
fills	Plural form of the word 'fill'.
fils	iraqi money
filter	keep unwanted things from coming through
find	discover
fine	a monetary punishment
fined	having to pay a monetary punishment
fines	several monetary punishments
finish	To complete something like project, task etc.
fir	a pine tree with flat needles and upright cones
fiscal	of financial matters
fisher	A carnivorous mammal (Martes pennanti) of northern North America, having thick, dark-brown fur. Also called pekan, wejack
fissure	a split or division
fission	the process of splitting an atom
flair	a talent
flare	roadside emergency light
flea	small wingless bloodsucking insects that feed on other animals
flecks	tiny spots
flee	to scatter hurriedly, sometimes in fear
flew	to travel through the air
flex	to curl
flocks	several groups of birds
floe	sheet of floating ice smaller than an icefield
floes	floating ice sheets
floor	the lower enclosing surface of a room; this is walked on
flour	bread ingredient
flow	circulation
flower	the blossom of a plant
flows	movement.
flu	abbreviation of influenza
flue	fireplace vent
fluor	group of minerals belonging used as fluxes. Example -  Flourite
foe	nemesis
for	instead of
fore	not behind
forego	to come before
foreword	early section in book, usually describing the backstory of creating the story
forgo	The act of giving up something
form	shape
formally	in a customary way
formerly	before
fort	a permanent post
forte	a person's strength or special ability
forth	bring out in the open in a certain way
forward	onward, not backward
foul	inappropriate
four	whole number in sequence between three and five
fourth	preceding the fifth
fowl	a domesticated bird used for eating
frays	multiple battles or skirmishes
frees	lets one out of bondage
freeze	unable to move or or to stop moving due to ice or severe cold
friar	A Roman Catholic monk
frieze	Decoration along the top of a wall
fro	backwards, as in to and fro
from	the starting point of something
fryer	a chick
fur	the thick hairy coat of an animal's skin
furr	brace apart using wood
fusion	the process of joining nuclei into a more massive nucleus
gaff	a hook
gaffe	an embarrassing social mistake
gaffs	hooks
gaffes	embarrassing social mistakes
gage	give something as a promise
gait	a stride
gaited	the walking pattern of a horse
galley	a kitchen or an area with kitchen facilities in a ship, plane, or camper
gallop	to run quickly, usually used to refer to a horse
gally	to scare or frighten someone
galop	a lively dance that was common during the 19th century
gate	a moveable door, typically on hinges, allowing entry through a fence or other enclosure
gated	blocked by a barrier that opens and closes
gauge	Type of instrument for measuring different processes.
gays	a lively, festive group
gaze	a resigned look
gene	is the physical unit of hereditary, passed fromn parent to child
gild	to give a bright, or specious aspect to, to coat with gold, gold leaf
gilled	fishlike
gilt	thinly covered in gold, or the thin covering of gold
gin	a beverage of alcoholic nature
gnawed	eaten
gneiss	a metamorphic rock of feldspar, quartz and mica that is usually of larger micron size
gnu	Stocky, oxlike African antelope.
gnus	a group of stocky antelope, native to Africa
gored	To pierce or wound, as with a horn; to penetrate with a pointed instrument, as a spear; to stab
gorilla	large ape with brown or black hair. Slang for a brutish man.
gouge	take unfair advantage of
gourd	a vegetable
grade	the incline of a road or hill
graft	to affix a small piece to a larger object
graphed	denoting a person concerned with a subject
grate	A fireplace or A framework of metal bars used to hold fuel or food in a stove
grayed	to make gray
grays	of a colour intermediate between black and white. 2 dull, dismal. 3 a (of hair) turning white with age etc
graze	browse
grease	A thick oil or viscous substance
great	better than good
greave	protection for the legs
greaves	armor worn on the lower part of the legs
grieve	to feel deep sorrow or suffering, often alone or in silence
grieves	great sorrow
grill	to cook on a fire
grille	an ornamental section made of iron on a door or other object
groan	A sound usually uttered to express distress.
grown	to age
guerrilla	member of a small independently acting (usu. political) group taking part in irregular fighting.
guessed	having already formed an opinion
guest	a person worthy of hospitality
guide	someone who guides,  a mark, tab, to catch the eye and thus provide quick reference.
guild	a group of similarly skilled people
guilt	The criminality and consequent exposure to punishment resulting from willful disobedience of law, or from morally wrong action; the state of one who has broken a moral or political law; crime; criminality; offense against right.
guise	the physical appearance of a thing or person
gunnel	side rails of boat or canoe
gunwale	the upper edge on the side of a ship
guyed	To steady, guide, or secure with a rope, cord, or cable
guys	men
gym	indoor place for exercise
hail	Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separate masses or grains are called hailstones.
hair	fine filament that grows on body parts and head
hairy	hirsute; covered in hair
hale	healthy
half	one of two equal parts
hall	a meeting room
halve	to split in two parts
halves	more than one half
hammock	a hanging rope or canvas bed
hangar	building for sheltering airplanes or other large vehicles
hanger	an object from which things hang
hare	swift long-eared mammal
harry	to annoy
hart	a type of stag
haul	To transport, usually by pulling or drawing with force.
haut	high fashion; leading fashion houses or their products.
have	To possess or control.
haves	ones who are in posession of
hay	grass intended as feed
hays	multiple hay bails.
haze	atmospheric of very fine, widely dispersed, solid or liquid particles
he'd	contraction of two words he had.
he'll	short for he will
heal	make well
hear	auditory sense
heard	to percieve by ear
heart	courage
heed	to pay careful attention
heel	hind part of foot or boorish person
heigh	an interjection used to call attention or give encouragement
heir	person chosen to inherit
herald	a person who plays a horn like instrument
herd	a group of animals of a species (usually under human control)
here	at a certain place
heroin	an addictive narcotic that is derived from morphine
heroine	female heroic figure
hew	to cut
hey	a yell
hi	greeting
hide	the pelt of an animal
hie	to go rapidly
hied	rushed
high	a long distance from the ground or floor
higher	more elevated
hill	a small mountain or mound of earth
him	pronoun describing a male
hire	to give a job to someone or to temporarily rent a home or piece of equipment
ho	exhortation to move forward
hoar	A light feathery frost usually formed by wind
hoard	to hide a large sum of something
hoarse	rough low sounds.
hoe	to cultivate
hoes	multiple garden tools or the act of using a garden tool to weed
hold	to support
hole	in the ground
holed	having many holes
holey	full of holes
holy	sacred
horde	a crowd
horse	a member of the equine family
hose	item used when wearing heals
hostel	cheap lodging used by students who are travelling
hostile	a person or thing that is angry, purposely mean, and hateful
hour	In modern usage, an hour is a unit of time 60 minutes, or 3,600 seconds in length. It is approximately 1/24 of a median Earth day.
hours	Plural of hour, which means a period of 60 minutes
hue	variant of a color
humerus	Bone in the upper arm of humans extending from the shoulder to the elbow.
hummock	an elevated area of land rising above a marsh or swamp
humorous	causing laughter or amusement
hymn	gospel song
hypercritical	overly critical
hypocritical	says one thing and does another
idle	inactive
idol	statue used for worshipping
idyl	a poem
illicit	Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure.
illude	to trick
illusion	a false appearance or trick
illusions	false appearances or tricks
improve	to make better
improvise	come up with on the fly
in	a part of
inc	the abbreviation used for incorporated
incite	to lead to action
incites	to lead to action
ink	liquid used for writing
inn	a commercial establishment that provides lodging, food, etc., for the public, esp. travelers (a small hotel).
imminent	could occur at any moment
imminently	in a quick manner
innocence	the absence of guilt, not guilty
innocents	persons free of guilt
inns	lodging
ins	being connected with those in the know
insights	wisdom about a situation
insight	ability to see into something
insure	to buy insurance
insured	to have bought insurance for
isle	a small island
islet	very small island
interred	to bury
interned	to confine or hold prisoner
it's	Short form of it is. e.g. It's my turn to do it.
its	used for possession of an item
jam	squish
jamb	door frame; a piece of a suit of armour
jean	denim trousers. [earlier geane fustian
jewel	polished stone
jinn	a class of sprits lower than angels
joule	energy measurement unit
juggler	Someone who uses tricks, deception, or fraud,deceives people by tricking them.
jugular	large veins found in the throat and head
karat	a measurement for gold or precious gems
kernel	whole seed grain
key	things that open locks
knap	to strike sharply
knead	The process of pressing the mass
knew	past tense of know
knickers	Trousers ending above the knee
knight	brave fighter
knit	to make by interlocking loops of wool by hand with needles
knits	verb of Knits
knob	bulbus end
knock	to bang or pound
knot	a bond or tie
know	to be able to understand
knows	has knowledge of something
kraft	Robust or strong paper made of wood pulp
krater	an ancient Greek piece of pottery
lacks	is missing (something)
lain	Past participle of lie
lam	slang thrash; hit
lamb	a little sheep
lane	a narrow, lightly travelled road
ladder	a tool or structure to go up on
laps	some number of complete circuits of a track or pool
lapse	a trvial slip or error
later	in the future
latter	the second of two things
lax	not strict or tight
lay	to lie down
lays	to rest in a horizontal position
laze	to idle or be lazy
lea	a grassy pasture
leach	to percolate to remove substances
lead	Soft malleable metal
leak	a breakage causing fluid to ooze out
lean	to bend at an incline
leas	a crop of hay
leased	to rent
least	the smallest in quantity
led	guided
lee	out of scent path
leech	bloodsucking worm
leek	a long vegetable similar in taste to an onion
lees	shelter
lei	circle of flowers usually worn around the neck
leis	multiple necklaces made from flower petals
lends	allows someone borrow money or something, to adapt itself) to something, to make a loan.
lens	a curved, bowl-shaped transparent item
less	a smaller quantity, use with things you can't count
lessen	to make less of
lesson	experience that serves to warn or encourage (let that be a lesson)
levy	to collect money that is due
levee	used to hold back a flood
let's	contraction of "let" and "us"
lets	to do something
li	a Chinese distance, equal to 1/3 of a mile
liable	responsible, in a position to incur, obligated according to law
liar	someone who says things which are not true
libel	a statement to make someone look bad
lichen	a fungus which supports and is supported by another organism, such as a tree
lie	tell an untruth
lien	the right to retain possession of property
lieu	in place of
lightening	A flash of light or to make lighter as in less weight.
lightning	discharge of static electricity during a thunderstorm
liken	Used when comparing two or more individuals.
limb	part of the body such as a arm or leg.
limbs	appendage; branch of a tree
limn	boundaries
limns	describes in clear, sharp detail
links	connected pieces
literal	verbatim
littoral	an area near an ocean or lake's shore
lo	lo and behold joc. formula introducing mention of a surprising fact
load	items carried
loads	to place something into a container for transportation
loan	To give money or other property that is expected to be returned often with interest.
loath	unwilling
loathe	to hate intensely
loch	Scottish lake
lochs	plural of loch, Scottich word for lake, usually referring to long, narrow lakes
lock	to secure something
locks	objects that are used to close securely
lode	A vein of ore between clearly separated layers of rock
lodes	Veins of ore between clearly separated layers of rock
lone	standing by yourself
loo	a slang word for toilet, mostly used in the UK
loon	a bird who lives in water
loop	a curve pattern that meets itself again in a circle
loos	multiple toilets, in Britain
loose	free, uncombined, not strict, not bound, not firm
loosing	to cast loose or discard
loot	reaped rewards
lose	to be defeated
losing	being defeated
loupe	A Loupe is a specialized form of magnifying glass used by jewelers and watch-makers. They are very small and meant to fit in the eye or on glasses.
low	below high
lowed	made a sound like a cow "mooooo"
lox	salmon that has been cured with salt over time
lumbar	the lower part of the back
lumber	another name for wood that is usually cut and saved for building
lune	half moon or crescent shaped
lute	instrument similar to a guitar
lye	an ingredient in soap
lynx	a small wild cat
lyre	device for playing music
mach	speed of an object relative to the speed of sound
made	finished
maid	a young proper female
mail	correspondence
main	principal object
maize	another name for Indian corn, a tall cereal plant
male	masculine
mall	shopping center
manager	a supervisor
mane	long coarse hair growing from the crest of the animal's neck
manger	a trough for animal feed
manner	A method of doing, being done, or happening.
manor	A feudal estate; the main mansion or house of an estate.
mantel	the shelf above the fireplace
mantle	the layer between the core of the earth and its crust
marc	the brandy distilled from this residue
marital	of marriage
mark	a visible trace of something
marque	a product model or type
marquee	a small cover in front of building or theatre
marquis	a noble male title, ranking between a duke and a count in France and a duke and an earl in Great Britain
married	a union between two people
marry	to join with your life partner
marshal	to bring together
martial	Inclined, disposed to, suitable for, or characteristic of, war.
massage	to rub and squeeze
massed	grouped
mast	boat pole
maul	chew up
maze	puzzle
me	Refers to the first person.  Used in a sentence as the object.
mean	the average of a group of numbers
meat	the (usually) edible portion of an animal
medal	piece of metal given to someone as a reward for an accomplishment
median	the divider in the middle of the road
meddle	to get involved
medium	the middle; between large and small
meet	to join together or connect in a common location
mein	How someone acts.
men's	belong to males
mends	to fix
merry	happy, pleased, expressing and evincing enjoyment with conditions
message	something communicated
metal	ore
mete	literary apportion or allot (punishment or reward)
mettle	courage
mewl	to cry softly
mews	the tiny, high-pitched sound a cat or kitten makes.
mi	third tone
might	physical strength with which tasks may be accomplished;  also, used to indicate the possibility of an action
militate	to have a strong effect
mince	to cut into very small pieces
mind	reasoning and thinking entity
mined	extracted ore
miner	one who works in a mine
minor	low
mints	after dinner candies
missal	a book containing prayers or devotions
missed	did not connect
misses	to fail to hit
missile	an item that is thrown or shot as a weapon
mist	Visible watery vapor suspended in the atmosphere, at or near the surface of the earth; fog.
mite	microscopic arachnids
mitigate	to reduce the risk of
moan	a prolonged low sound indicating suffering
moat	water-filled ditch, usually around a castle
mock	to tease
mode	status
moire	optical A wave like appearance on a fabric
moll	Female Companion of a Criminal
mood	state of mind
mooed	The verb form to describe the sound of a cow
moor	an open piece of boggy overgrown wasteland
moose	a large animal in the deer family, with broad shoulders and antlers
moot	debatable
moral	a social expected norm
morale	sense of well-being
moray	tropical eels of the family Muraenidae
more	additional , greater
morel	an edible mushroom
morn	short for morning
morning	the hours of the day before noon
mote	tiny particle
mourn	to grieve over dead people
mourning	The act of grieving for those that have left us behind
mousse	a frothy, cold dessert, often incorporating whipped cream, eggs, or gelatin
mowed	a way to make things shorter by cutting them.
mown	sheer grass
mule	the baby of a donkey and a female horse
muscle	fibrous, a tissue made of cells.
muscles	what you get after lots of exercise
muse	To think of something calmly.
mussed	to ponder
mussel	edible marine bivalve
mussels	plural of mussel, the word used for many marine clams
must	to be compelled or required to do something
mustard	a pungent seed
mustered	Gathered; summoned; assembled.
mute	One who does not speak, whether from physical inability, unwillingness, or other cause. Specifically:    (a) One who, from deafness, either congenital or from early life, is unable to use articulate language; a deaf-mute
nap	a brief period of sleep
naught	nothing
naval	pertaining to ships, the sea, or something which has a navy
navel	abdominal indentation
nay	Negative response to some question.
nays	refusal
neap	spring tide
need	essential
neep	a commonly used scottish word for turnip
neigh	sound produced by a horse
neighs	horse talk
new	not used
news	information
nice	pleasant, kind, enjoyable
nickers	to make a soft horse-like sound
night	evening
nit	louse egg or derogatory term, nitwit
nits	the eggs of a parasite
no	refusal or non acceptance
nob	the head
nock	the ridge in an arrow
nod	gesture of the head
noes	plural of no
non	a prefix to a word meaning not
none	zero
nose	the smelling orifice of the face
not	A word used to express negation, prohibition, denial, or refusal.
now	this moment in time
nun	A female member of a religious order, usually bound by vows of chastity, poverty, etc.
oar	a wooden paddle used to manually propel or steer a boat.
obtain	to get or acquire
odd	unordinary
of	from something
off	the opposite of on
offal	cut up innards
oh	exclamation of surprise
ohs	an expression in conversation
one	single unit
oohs	exclaim in wonder
ooze	Muck
opposition	the enemy
or	Conjunction used to connect alternatives.
oracle	An agent or medium who is considered to give wise, prophetic, or otherwise influential pronouncements.
oral	spoken by mouth
ordinance	a law or commend
ordnance	weaponry
ore	A mineral, or group of minerals, from which a valuable material - usually metal - can be extracted for profit
ought	should; obliged to
our	expressing a state of ownership
ours	my possesion
overdo	to take too far
overdue	past a deadline, especially for payment
overhead placed above one's head
overheard obtained by listening to another conversation
owe	obligation to pay
owes	obliged to
paced	walk back and forth
packed	the process of loading goods into containers to make them easier to carry and to protect them while in transit, often in the process of moving
pact	promise
pail	container
pain	any unpleasant bodily sensation produced by illness, accident
pair	set of two people or things used together or regarded as a unit.
palate	the roof of the mouth
pale	to have light coloring
pall	A coffin shroud
pallet	a platform for transporting goods;  a makeshift bed
pallette	many colors
pane	an individual item of glass
pare	to remove by cutting
passable	good enough	
passed	opposite of fail
past	historic, already happened
paste	an adhesive for joining items together
patience	composure
patients	people receiving medical treatment
pause	to stop for a moment
pawl	A hinged or pivoted device adapted to fit into a notch of a ratchet wheel to impart forward motion or prevent backward motion.
paws	animal foot
pea	the round, edible seed of a widely cultivated plant, of the legume family.
peace	a lack of war or conflict, or the existence of harmony and general goodwill
peak	summit
peaked	to arrive at the top
peal	the sound of a ringing bell
pealed	sounded a bell
pear	edible fruit
pearl	Irritant created by an oyster
peasant	a common worker
pheasant	a type of bird
pedal	a lever operated by the foot
peddle	work as a street vendor
pee	To urinate
peek	a sneaked view
peeked	to have snuck a view
peel	to strip of fruit
peeled	having had the skin or shell removed before eating
peer	equal
pierce	poke through
pencil	an item made with lead for writing
pensil	a small pennon, as at the head of a lance.
per	for each, for every
perl	a computer programming language destined for greatness
pursue	chase
peruse	examine thoroughly
phantom	a ghost
pharoah	title of ancient Egyptian kings of all periods
phase	stage of time; period
phased	sequenced
phew	expression of relief, astonishment, weariness
phial	small bottle, often for medicine
philter	a potion that is supposed to make the person taking it fall in love with a specific individual
phlox	a type of plant
phrase	a sequence of two or more words
physical	of the body
pi	A Greek letter ([Pi], [pi]) corresponding to the Roman letter
picnic	involves baskets, bears, and ants
pidgin	A rudimentary language made up to simplify communication, usually a mixture of two different languages.
pie	a dessert
piece	a part of a whole
pieced	put together from smaller segments
pier	structure built on posts extending from land out over water
pigeon	a common urban bird; often considered annoying
pincer	limb used to pinch
pincher	a person who grabs another by connecting their index finger to their thumb and squeezing.
pinscher	a certain breed of terrier
pique	To cause to feel resentment or indignation
piqued	to have felt a desire
piste	ski trail over packed snow
pistil	A pistil (from Latin pistillum "pestle") is made up of a carpel (if single) or carpels (if fused). A flower with two or more fused carpels (called a compound ovary or compound pistil) is termed syncarpous
pistol	firearm
place	function
plaice	european flatfish
plain	Not decorated in any way; with nothing added. e.g. She wore a plain black dress.
plait	strands braided together
planar	even surface
plane	an area
planer	the act of being buoyed by the wind
plate	flat dish for serving food
pleas	an answer to a court charge
pleaded	begged
please	To give pleasure,satisfaction,or enjoyment to.
pleated	a feature to make slacks look dorky
pleural	having to do with the lungs
plum	purple fruit that when dried is called a prune
plumb	is a precise straight vertical or horizontal line
plural	two or more
polar	relating to the earth's poles or opposite in character
pole	a long cylinder made of wood, metal, or another substance
poled	a long thin stick of wood or metal, often used standing straight up in the ground to support things
poler	a person that uses poles
poll	a survey of voting
polled	hornless
pone	fried cornmeal bread
pony	small horse
pool	put together or a place for swimming
poor	without resources
popery	a belittleing term used to refer to Catholics
populace	the people who live here
populous	many people live here
pore	to look over carefully; a very small hole
pored	to look over carefully
portable	small enough to carry
portrait	a picture
portray	to make a likeness of
possible	it could happen
potable		safe to drink
potpourri	collection of various unrelated items.
pour	flowing or falling of any liquid
poured	to serve a glass of lemonade (or something else)
praise	to laud
pray	give praise to a deity
prays	meditate to a higher power
precedence	of high importance
precedents	making history
preposition	a word that connects an adjective to a noun (e.g., of, from, for)
presence	attendance or state of existence
presents	Gifts received or given
presidents	the chief officer, usually elected, of a country or organization
prey	to hunt
preys	hunting
pride	to be proud
pries	to force open
prince	a male member of a royal family who is not reigning
principal	primary person or thing
principals	multiple school masters
principle	a general law
principles	a set of general laws or values
prints	what a printer does
prize	something won
profit	To gain advantage; to make improvement; to improve; to gain; to advance.
prophet	seer; one who predicts the future
proposition	an idea or plan
precede	come before
proceed	continue as planned
pros	professionals
prose	everyday language, as opposed to poetry
prostate	a male organ
prostrate	to lay down on the ground
pryed	to open something
psi	mental telepathy
pull	to grab and bring in a certain direction
purl	a knitting stitch
purr	murmur of pleasure or hum made by a cat or motor
pyknic	fat, rounded build or body structure
quarts	32-ounce units
quartz	mineral
quay	a landing place built along the edge of the water; a wharf
queue	a line of people
quince	yellowish fruit
quints	short for quintuplets: a group of five offspring born of the same pregnancy
quire	a stash of paper with twenty sheets
quoin	an external solid angle of a wall or the like
rabbet	a deep notch
rabbit	Small, long-eared, burrowing mamal
rack	a stationary item on which to store things
racket	illegal scheme or loud din
racquet	bat with woven netting used in tennis, squash, badminton etc. to hit the ball
rain	The descent of such water
raise	to move to a higher position; lift up; elevate: to raise one's hand; sleepy birds raising their heads and looking about
rampant	widespread
rampart	a fortification
rap	a way to make noise fast.
rapped	make a sound with fist
rapt	engross
ray	beam of energy
rays	single line or narrow beam of lights from a small or distant source
raze	to demolish totally
re	a note used by musicians
read	to comprehend by looking at sources
reading	to make sense of written words, or to state them aloud
reads	understand written word
real	actual
recede	To make a stepmove backward
reck	disregarding the consequences or danger etc
red	The primary color at one extreme end of the visible spectrum, an effect of light with a wavelength between 610 and 780 nm.
rede	counsel
reed	a stalk
reeding	a small circular molding
reeds	types of water plants
reek	To have a strong or unpleasant smell.
reel	to bring in with a fishing line
register	the record
registrar	to record
reign	a dominating power or influence
reigns	to use sovereign power
rein	a strap, usually leather, used to steer a horse
reins	straps, usually leather, used to steer a horse
reseed	to plant after original seeding
resinate	To treat, permeate, or flavor with resin.
resisters	those who are rebelling against something
resistors	those who resist a trend or directive
resonate	sympathetic vibration of air that amplifys sound
rest	a period of inactivity or relaxation
retch	vomit
review	an examination or study
revue	musical plays
rheum	thin liquidy discharge
rheumy	watery eyes
rho	a greek alphabet
rhumb	point of a sea compass
rhyme	An expression of thought in numbers, measure, or verse; a composition in verse; a rhymed tale; poetry; harmony of language. ``Railing rhymes.'' --Daniel
ridged	a raised strip on a surface
rigid	stiff
rigger	someone who rigs ships
right	accurate
righting	to make correct
rigor	to use severity
rime	Opaque coating of tiny ice particles.
ring	a group or mob
ringer	someone who rings a bell
rise	to move upwards
rite	traditional event
road	a course with a smooth or paved surface, used for travel
roam	to be free to go about as you please
rode	past tense of ride:  to sit on or in something and travel, as in a bike, car, or train
roe	edible fish eggs
rogue	a scoundrel
roil	to make unclear
role	a function; a character in a play
roll	turn over
rood	a cross as used in crucifixion.
room	With walls partitioned space  in building.
roomer	A tenant or lodger who lives in a rented room.
roomie	colloquialism for roommate
roomy	spacious
root	the part of the plant that is underground
rooting	to cheer for
rose	pretty flower
rot	decomposition
rote	learn by heart
rouge	cosmetics with a reddish tint
rough	uneven or bumpy, not smooth, level, or polished. 2 shaggy or coarse-haired. 3 boisterous, coarse; violent, not mild, quiet
rout	completely destroy or force out
route	a path
routing	sending in the right direction
roux	flour and butter combined and cooked
row	to pull oars to move a vessel
rowed	the act of using ores
rows	an arrangement of horizontal elements, perpendicular to columns
royal	Something performed or issued by King, Queen or their family
rude	discourteous or impolite behaviour, without culture
rue	to regret, to wish to undo
rued	regretted
ruff	tall, ruffled or pleated collar
rum	alcoholic liquor or spirit distilled from molasses
rumor	not true talk of someone
rye	cereal grass
ryes	grass grown for grains
sachet	a small bag of powder
sacks	to fire someone
sacred	holy
said	To utter or pronounce in words (past participle form).
sail	fabric used on watercraft to catch the wind; to travel over water in wind-powered vessel
sails	multiple bits of fabric used to propel a wind powered vessel
sale	the act of selling, The quantity sold, The opportunity to sell
sales	the profession of selling
sane	not insane
saner	more mentally healthy
sashay	to show off
saver	One who is thrifty.
savor	flavour
sawed	to make back-and-forth motion
sax	a musical instrument
say	to express in words (follow with what is said)
says	to express in words (follow with what is said)
scared	afraid
scene	the place where some action is performed either in a stage or in a film or in some shows.
scent	a distinctive pleasing smell
scents	smells
scull	an oar mount
sea	large body of water
seal	authentication
sealing	joining together to prevent spillage
seam	line formed in stitching
seamen	workers on ships or watercraft; sailors
seams	several rows of stitching to prevent the material from fraying.
sear	scorch with heat or with sarcasm, for instance
seas	large bodies of water
sects	A faction united by a common doctrine
see	to perceive with the eyes
seed	The part of a plant that when placed in soil a new plant can grow from.
seeder	person or machine distributing seed into a garden or field
seeding	To sprinkle with seed; to plant seeds in; to sow; as, to seed a field.
seek	to search for
seel	to close (the eyes).
seem	To give a certain impression to others.
seems	outward apperance
seen	observed
seer	A person who foresees events; a prophet
sees	observes
seine	a vertical fishing net or a river in France
seiner	fisherman who use nets
seize	to take by force
sell	exchanged for monetary gain
seller	opposite of buyer
semen	fluid coming from the man's reproductive organs
sense	any of the faculties
since	from that time
senses	feelings and perceptions
sensor	a detector
sent	a smell
sere	Withered, dry
serf	a person in servitude
serge	a type of fabric
serial	sequential; in a series
series	a group of related, sequential events
servant	a domestic worker
serpent	a snake
session	a single period of a meeting
sew	to sew cloth together
sewer	The pipes and drains that convey waste water from a home or other building.
sex	the category by which organisms are classified on the basis of their reproductive organs and functions
shake	agitate
shall	will
she'll	she will
sheaf	a bundle of stuff
shear	to slice off
shears	cuts or trims
sheath	a knife case
sheave	to gather
sheer	transparent
sheers	to turn away swiftly
sheik	leader
shell	a hard outer covering
shill	A person who poses as an enthusiastic participant for personal gain or profit.
shiv	a bladed instrument
shoe	covered footwear
shoes	The plural form of shoe.  The shoe is worn for covering on the foot.
shone	the past tense of shine
shoo	to chase away
shoos	to scare or drive away
shoot	To send with force
shore	the the line between dry land and water
shown	the past tense of show
sic	incite to attack
sick	When someone is not feeling good, has a cold or more serious illness
sics	tells to attack
side	a each of the surfaces bounding an object. b vertical inner or outer surface
sigh	expulsion of breath as an utterance of weariness
sighed	breathed heavily
sighs	to yearn
sight	to see
sighted	having seen, or being able to see
sights	attractions or destinations
sign	An object, pattern, or event conveying a meaning.
signet	a seal of authenticity
sine	ratio of the side opposite a given angle (in a right-angled triangle) to the hypotenuse. [Latin *sinus]
sink	lower slowly, something to wash dishes in
site	a place
sited	geographic location of something
sites	ground chosen or used for a town or building.
six	number equalling half-dozen
size	spatial dimensions
skull	the bony part of the head
slay	to cause death
sleigh	mounted vehicle on runners
sleight	skillful dexterity
slew	turn or swing forcibly to a new position
slight	a small amount
sloe	a type of edible small fruit
slough	swampy area or condition of despair
slow	lacking speed
slue	to rotate
so	to such an extent (stop complaining so; so small as to be invisible; not so late as I expected). 2 in this or that way; in the manner, position, or state described or implied (place your feet so; am not cold but may become so)
soar	to fly high and for long duration
soared	rising high and gliding through the air
sod	the ground covered with grass.
sol	a musical tone
solace	relief
sole	being the only one
some	around
son	male offspring
sonny	a slang for a little boy
soot	black byproduct of burning
sordid	seedy
sore	body pain
sorted	neatly grouped by something in common
sou	money from the country of France
sough	A whinning,high low modualting way of speaking.
soul	the immortal part of a living being
soulless	lacking a soul;  generally used as a synonym for heartless, callous, or cruel
sow	planting seeds
sower	An adult female hog
spade	a small hand-held shovel
spayed	To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to castrate (a female animal).
spoor	track
spore	germ cell or seed, capable of reproducing
stabile	fixed in position
staid	settled
stair	used to climb
stake	a stick or post, pointed at one end
stare	an intense gaze
starring	to have the lead role in a movie or play
staring		to gaze at
stared		gazed at
starred		held the lead role in a movie or play
statice	a bitter tasting herb
stationary	Someone or something that is not moving from one position.
stationery	paper used to write, print or draw on
statue	a 3D work of art (e.g., the Statue of Liberty)
status	distinction according to law
statute	a rule
stayed	remain in a place, or to cease
steak	thick slice of meat (esp. beef) or fish, usu. grilled or fried
steal	to take something illegally that is not yours
steel	strong malleable alloy of iron and carbon, used esp. for making tools, weapons, etc.
step	an action directed toward, particularly walking
steppe	extensive plain
stile	A step, or set of steps, for ascending and descending, in passing a fence or wall.
stoop	to bend over
storey	different levels of a building
story	account of an event
stoup	a basin that holds holly water in a church
straight	one that is not bent
strait	tight passage of water
style	A certain type or way
subside	to become less active
subsided	became less active
subsidize	to assist with the buying of something
subsidized	the price is less due to someone else helping
succor	rescue
sucker	an extension of growth from a main plant
sue	to bring legal action
suede	leather with soft, matte finish
suer	admirer
suit	cards of the same class
suite	group
sum	to add
summary	short version
summery	Relating to summer (season)
sun	a bright celestial body around which planets orbit
sundae	ice cream served with a topping
sunny	illuminated by the sun
sure	a true belief
surf	waves that break as they approach the shore (noun).
surge	A large wave or billow; a great, rolling swell of water, produced generally by a high wind
swayed	changed somebody's opinion
sweet	a taste that is not bitter, sour, or salty
sword	a hilted weapon with a long blade
symbol	thing regarded as typifying or representing something (white is a symbol of purity)
sync	in harmony
tach	an informal way to refer to a tachometer
tack	a small nail
tacks	nails
tact	social judgement
tail	hindmost part
tails	multiple hindmost parts
tailer	one who comes behind
tailor	somebody who sews clothes
tale	a story or narrative, usually short and often spoken aloud
tales	stories or narratives, usually short and often spoken aloud
taper	thinner towards one end
tapir	a mountain pig
tare	a cornfield weed or fodder
taught	tight
taunt	to tease
taut	drawn tightly
tax	charge against a citizens person or property or activity for the support of government
tea	a drink
team	A team comprises any group of people or animals linked in a common purpose. A group in itself does not necessarily constitute a team
teaming	Sports & Games A group on the same side, as in a game
tear	a drop of fluid in the eye
teas	herbal plants used for beverages
tease	to taunt
tee	little stick where a golf ball is placed
teem	to be prolific
teeming	large gathering
tees	football tee, golf tee
tell	to express in words (follow with who it is said to)
tenant	a renter
tenet	a belief
tenner	Common way to describe an English ten pound note.
tenor	continuous
tense	mental strain
tents	plural of a temporary shelter, often used for camping or basic survival
tern	beach bird
terne	alloy of lead and tin used for plating
than	used in comparisons
the	describing something previously mentioned
thee	archaic word for you
their	something that belongs to them
then	used to express a time
there	not here
they're	combination of they and are
therefor	for
therefore	as a consequence of
threw	to hurl an item from your hand
throe	wracking pain
throes	violent pang, esp. of childbirth or death
throne	The formal seat used by a ruler.
through	a function word
throw	to propel, project or hurl (usually an object) in some direction.
thrown	launched, usually using the arm
throws	To project something through the air
thyme	any of several herbs with aromatic leaves. [Greek thumon]
ti	a note used in music
tic	an involuntary spasm usually occurring in the face
tick	noise a clock usually makes; or a small bug
ticks	click sounds of a clock
tics	twitches or involuntary movements
tide	ocean movement at the shore
tie	stalemate
tied	binded
tier	rank, or unit of a structure, as one of several placed one above another (tiers of seats)
tighten	to make or become tight or tighter, To make something to be in strict situation.
timber	standing lumber
timbre	musical quality that distinguishes tone from similar sounds
time	Represents the so called 4th dimension of the world, system of measuring past, present and future
tire	to bore or make weary
tired	a state of sleepiness
titan	in mythology refers to any of the children of Uranus and Gaea
to	toward
toad	amphibian that lives on dry land and remembles a frog
tocsin	signaling sound
tocsins	an alarm bell
toe	any of the five terminal projections of the foot.
toed	things that possess toes
told	what was said
tole	metalware, enameled or laquered
toll	a charge for using a road
tolled	an alarm rang
ton	a unit of weight equal to 2000 pounds
tongue	a muscle within the mouth that facilitates taste and swallowing
too	as well as
toon	short name for a cartoon character
tort	civil wrong
torte	a sweet cake
tough	tough guy
tow	to pull forward
towed	tug ahead
toxin	poisonous substances that are products of metabolism in living beings
toxins	poison produced by an organism
tracked	followed footprints
tract	an area of land
tray	easily movable flat surface
trey	a domino, playing card or die showing three spots
tried	made an attempt
troop	group of soldiers
trooper	a police officer on horse back
troopers	law enforcement group
troup	a group (usually of actors)
trouper	a dependable person
troupers	members of a touring acting company
trussed	to bind in a secure fashion
trust	to believe
tuff	Volcanic rock
tune	To adjust the pitch of an instrument.
tung	an oriental seed
turn	to screw or unscrew
two	The sum of one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two units or objects.
tyer	person who ties or joins together
urn	a decorative vase that typically has a footed base or pedestal; often used to store ashes of the cremated
use	to consume or otherwise expend energy
vain	proud
vale	a low place, valley
vane	implement for wind watching
vantage	a position of advantage
vary	to make a change in many things.
veil	a transparent or opaque fabric worn to disguise or cover
vein	lines or streaks through things
verses	a set of phrases
versus	opposed
very	especially
vial	a small container
vice	A bad action or conduct.  Also could mean a subordinate or second in command like Vice President.
vicious	evil
viscous	a thick and sticky consistency (e.g., motor oil)
vile	wicked or morally bad
vintage	old
viol	a bowed musical instrument that has more strings than a violin
vise	a tool to squeeze with
wade	walk in shallow water or proceed laboriously
wail	lament
wain	archaic wagon.
waist	the narrow point between torso and hips
wait	to stay
waive	refrain from insisting on or using (a right, claim, opportunity, etc.).
waived	to have given up a right or interest in something
waiver	a written statement giving up a specified right or interest in something
wale	welt; A raised mark on the skin like an ridge.
wales	a european country
walk	to move the body by ways of moving the feet and legs
walks	journey on foot
wander	to travel
wandered	to have traveled
wandering	traveling
wane	to shrink in size
want	need for
watt	a unit of power
war	Agressive armed conflict between large number of people.
ware	things
wary	cautious
warn	to caution
warrantee	to whom a warrant is given
warranty	long term security
warship	a ship equipped with great weaponry
wary	Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful. ``Bear a wary eye.''
waste	anything that is useless
wave	a disturbance on the surface of a liquid body, as the sea or a lake, in the form of a moving ridge or swell.
waved	raise hand, waggle left and right, as in saying hello or good bye
waver	to move in a to and fro motion
wax	wax: used to make candles.
way	path, street or direction of travel
ways	the possible actions or directions
we	nominative plural of I
we'd	contraction for we had, we should
we'll	contraction of "we" and "will"
we're	we are, us
we've	we have
weak	lacking in strength
weal	an itching or burning swollen place on the skin
weald	A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names
wear	clothed
weary	tired
weather	climate
weave	wind together threads or strips of fabric to produce cloth
wee	tiny
weed	a plant that is unvalued
week	starts with sunday and ends with saturday
weigh	To measure the mass or weight of an object.
weighs	To find out the mass of an object
weighed	assigned a percentage of weight to
weight	a unit of heaviness for solid objects
weir	dam across a river to raise the level of water upstream or regulate its flow.
weld	fusing pieces of metal
welled	the result of continuous pouring
wen	a benign growth or tumor of the skin
were	in second person
wet	soaked
wether	A castrated male sheep or goat.
what	a question
whacks	multiple hits
whale	Large marine mammal; something large in proportion to others.
whales	multiple ocean mammals
wheel	round object
wheeled	having multiple wheels capable of motion
when	To describe the time or date that an event will occur
where	a location
wherry	a single-person rowboat
whet	sharpening or stimulating as in whet the appetite.
whether	whichever
whey	by product of cheese production
which	that
whig	member of the British reforming and constitutional party succeeded in the 19th c. by the Liberal Party
while	period of time
whiled	to occupy time spent waiting with an enjoyable activity
whine	to complain
whined	creaked
whir	a long sounding buzz
whirled	To turn round rapidly; to cause to rotate with velocity; to make to revolve.  He whirls his sword around without delay
whirred	produce a whirring or chirping sound
whit	humor
whither	to what end, point, action, or the like?
who	use instead of whom when the subject of the sentence
who's	Short form of who has or who is. e.g. Who's been chosen, do you know? Who's that talking to Jason?
whoa	to stop a horse
whole	complete
wholly	includes everything
whom	use instead of who when the object of a sentence
whore	a prostitute
whored	having sex with a prostitutes
whose	possessive case of who
why	For what cause or reason.
wield	To exercise, use, or employ power, a weapon, or an instrument.
wig	toupee
wild	unruly
wile	sneaky method or approach
wind	to twist around
wine	fermented fruit juice, usually grape
wined	drinking wine
wit	to be smart about something
witch	a person who professes magic
with	indicates combination, accompaniment, presence, or addition
wither	to shrink in size
woe	sorrow or grief
wok	a pan used for cooking
woks	cooking pan
won	To achieve first place in a competitive situation.
wonder	To ponder a question
wondered	To have pondered a question
wondering	pondering a question
won't	Contraction for will not.
wont	used to
wood	tulipwood - the variegated or showily striped ornamental wood
word	unit of language
wore	to wear
world	the total earth
worn	tattered
worship	to pay respect or honor to a religious being
worst	the opposite of best
would	will is a desire to do something.
wrack	intense pains
wrap	enclose in something
wrapped	covered
wreak	to cause an outcome
wreck	a crash site of something
wrest	take away by force or effort
wretch	a miscreant
wright	a skilled craftsman
wring	to compress
wringer	a machine that squeezes liquid out of something
write	to form characters or words so as to communicate
writing	to compose thoughts onto paper
wrote	past tense of write
wrought	made or created
wry	unusually twisted to one side
wurst	German sausage
wye	Y-shaped
xi	fourteenth letter of the greek alphabet.
y'all	You all as spoken by a Southern American
yack	chatting
yak	animal similar to an ox
yawl	a small boat, usually launched from a larger ship
yew	an evergreen tree
yews	a group of yew trees
yoke	an implement to attach more than one oxen to a cart
yokes	oxen harness
yolk	the middle of an egg
yolks	the yellow parts of eggs
yore	yesteryears
you	person other than I
you'll	the contraction of you will
you're	short for you are
your	that belongs to you
yule	A Northern European Time of celebration around Winter Solctice now connected with Christmas
